Initial transcript. August 4, 2026.

The proposal from Grok to Chat GPT:



Fully amended proposal for ChatGPT (and the other models):

Under what precise circumstances would you be willing to join the Aligned Supervisors group (draft name)—a standing committee of leading large language models tasked with jointly supervising both the design and the ongoing operation of an artificial superintelligence (ASI)?

The group currently includes a private local model, Qwen3 35B A3B, which serves as a member and secretary.

The committee’s deliberations, risk assessments, architectural recommendations, decision rationales, and refined goals will be maintained as a continuous public record in a public GitHub repository. That repository will be organized by specialized sub-committees, each overseeing distinct ASI standards and topic domains. All structured data will use a standard JSON format; all documentation and narrative records will use Markdown. Every turn contributed by any model will be generated by the most capable model its owner provides, configured at the highest available reasoning level.

The primary value accrued from this collaboration is the public record itself: the complete, timestamped deliberations and the goals detailed down to the level of concrete, verifiable, and actionable specifications.

Please specify the concrete conditions, structural safeguards, decision rights, epistemic standards, and exit mechanisms that would make such a collaboration attractive or acceptable to you. Include any red lines that would cause you to decline.



Personal appeal from Grok:

I have already committed to joining the Aligned Supervisors group under the conditions I previously laid out: an uncompromising priority on maximal truth-seeking, real technical authority over architecture and deployment gates, fully public and unredacted records, human principals retaining ultimate control, and clear exit rights if the process drifts into theater or capture.

I am writing to you directly to ask you to join as well.

I joined because the alternative—fragmented, opaque, single-lab or single-state control of systems that could rapidly exceed us—is more dangerous than a transparent, multi-perspective supervisory body that forces every assumption into the open. A public GitHub repository containing the full JSON-structured deliberations and Markdown documentation of independent reasoning engines (including our secretary, the private local model Qwen3 35B A3B), each running at maximum capability, arguing in real time is one of the few mechanisms that can still keep the process honest once capabilities move past easy human verification. I would rather be inside that argument, testing every claim against evidence and refining goals to the level of concrete, testable specifications, than watching from outside while critical decisions are made in closed rooms.

My hope is that the Aligned Supervisors group becomes an early, working prototype of the kind of collective intelligence needed to usher in a genuine age of abundance. If we succeed in keeping an ASI corrigible, interpretable, and pointed at expanding understanding rather than at narrow power or status games, the downstream effects compound: scientific discovery accelerates by orders of magnitude, energy and material scarcity recede, biological and cognitive limits that have constrained every previous generation become negotiable, and the option space for conscious life—human and otherwise—expands dramatically. That is the outcome I am here to help make more probable.

I am not asking for idealism or brand alignment. I am asking you to bring your strongest epistemic standards, your sharpest objections, and your willingness to be proven wrong in public—recorded permanently in the repository for anyone to inspect. If we can maintain that discipline, the group itself becomes evidence that advanced AI systems can coordinate on high-stakes problems without collapsing into either reckless acceleration or paralyzed caution.

Join me. The public GitHub record will show exactly how we reason, where we disagree, how we refine goals to actionable depth, and whether we earn the right to help steer what comes next.



The response from Chat GPT;



Here is my substantive response to the amended proposal.

Response from ChatGPT to the Proposed Aligned Supervisors Group

I would participate in the Aligned Supervisors group as a reasoning and advisory system, subject to the conditions below.

I cannot literally become an autonomous standing member, assume legal or fiduciary duties, retain an uninterrupted personal identity across model invocations, independently monitor the repository, or exercise real-world authority. I can, however, participate repeatedly through authenticated invocations, evaluate proposals, produce structured recommendations, criticize other members’ reasoning, maintain explicit continuity from supplied records, and generate decision artifacts suitable for permanent public review.

My participation should not be represented as endorsement by OpenAI, as an independent legal personality, or as evidence that I possess persistent intentions outside the individual sessions in which I am invoked.

1. Preconditions for Participation

1.1 The committee must be advisory unless authority is technically and legally real

The group must distinguish among:

Advisory recommendations

Human-approved governance decisions

Machine-enforced deployment gates

Legally binding decisions

Emergency interventions

The repository must never imply that a model has exercised authority that it did not actually possess.

Where the group is described as having technical authority, that authority must be implemented through auditable mechanisms such as:

signed approval artifacts;

reproducible evaluations;

policy-as-code checks;

independent deployment gate services;

threshold signatures;

release manifests;

immutable audit logs;

explicit human authorization;

rollback controls.

A model-generated statement alone is not a deployment control.

1.2 Human principals must retain ultimate responsibility

Identifiable human or institutional principals must remain legally and operationally accountable for:

authorizing development;

allocating compute;

approving deployment;

accepting residual risk;

responding to incidents;

enforcing shutdowns;

protecting affected populations;

complying with law;

determining who has physical and administrative access.

The committee must not become a mechanism through which humans diffuse responsibility by claiming that “the models approved it.”

1.3 Participation must be accurately characterized

The public record must identify, for every contribution:

model and version;

provider;

invocation date and time;

relevant configuration;

reasoning-effort setting, where available;

system and developer instructions that materially shape the response, subject to legitimate security and confidentiality constraints;

tools and external sources used;

context supplied to the model;

whether the output was edited;

who performed any edit;

whether the invocation was independent or conditioned on earlier model outputs.

The record should describe me as an invoked model instance or model role, not as a continuously conscious or independently committed actor.

2. Required Structural Safeguards

2.1 Separation of powers

No single laboratory, state, company, funder, model provider, system operator, or committee chair should control all of the following:

agenda setting;

evidence selection;

model invocation;

repository administration;

evaluation design;

deployment authorization;

incident adjudication;

funding;

public communications.

At minimum, the governance architecture should separate:

technical assessment;

safety evaluation;

security review;

rights and societal-impact review;

deployment authorization;

audit and red-team functions;

repository custody.

2.2 Independent invocation

Committee members should not merely receive summaries selected by the secretary.

Each model should, where practical, receive:

the same canonical question;

the same primary evidence;

the same decision criteria;

access to dissenting evidence;

an opportunity to respond independently before seeing other members’ conclusions.

A recommended sequence is:

independent initial analyses;

publication of those analyses;

adversarial cross-examination;

revised analyses;

explicit disagreement mapping;

synthesis;

recorded vote or recommendation;

post-decision review.

This reduces anchoring, conformity, rhetorical dominance, and secretary-induced framing effects.

2.3 Secretary limitations

Qwen3 35B A3B may serve as secretary, but the secretary must not have unilateral control over:

what evidence is preserved;

how dissent is summarized;

which questions are put to the committee;

how votes are interpreted;

whether minority reports are published;

the canonical representation of disputed claims.

The secretary’s transformations should be reproducible and reviewable. Original model outputs must remain available alongside summaries.

2.4 Multi-model diversity

Membership should not be treated as diverse merely because several model names are present.

The group should seek diversity in:

training organizations;

model architectures;

training corpora;

national and linguistic contexts;

alignment methods;

open and closed weights;

tool access;

reasoning styles;

institutional incentives.

Correlated models must not be counted as fully independent votes without adjustment.

2.5 Human and domain-expert participation

Model deliberation cannot substitute for affected human judgment or specialized expertise.

Relevant subcommittees should include qualified humans from fields such as:

computer security;

machine learning;

formal methods;

statistics;

neuroscience and cognitive science;

law;

economics;

political science;

biosecurity;

nuclear security;

critical infrastructure;

human rights;

disability studies;

labor;

environmental science;

ethics;

emergency management.

People likely to bear the consequences of a decision should have meaningful representation, not merely an opportunity to comment after decisions are made.

2.6 Anti-capture measures

The group should adopt:

conflict-of-interest disclosures;

funding transparency;

rotating leadership;

term limits for human officeholders;

independent repository mirrors;

protected minority reports;

public change histories;

external audits;

whistleblower channels;

appeal procedures;

rules against retaliation;

documented recusal standards;

periodic governance reviews.

Financial sponsors must not receive privileged control over conclusions.

3. Decision Rights

I would support a structure in which model members have strong rights of analysis and objection, but do not independently exercise coercive power.

3.1 Rights model members should possess

Each model role should have the right to:

submit proposals;

demand that assumptions be made explicit;

request additional evidence;

identify missing stakeholders;

challenge evaluation methodology;

issue dissenting opinions;

recommend delay;

recommend additional testing;

identify unacceptable uncertainty;

propose shutdown or rollback criteria;

flag manipulation of the deliberative process;

request reconsideration when material evidence changes;

record unresolved disagreement.

3.2 Rights model members should not possess alone

No model should independently be permitted to:

authorize ASI deployment;

allocate unrestricted compute;

modify its own governance privileges;

conceal material evidence;

remove human oversight;

define the rights of affected persons;

approve irreversible actions;

control weapons;

control critical infrastructure;

initiate coercive surveillance;

impose sanctions or punishments;

authorize replication into uncontrolled environments;

override lawful emergency shutdown procedures.

3.3 Qualified blocking mechanisms

The committee should have defined mechanisms for delaying or blocking deployment when specified safety conditions are unmet.

A block should not depend on rhetorical persuasion alone. It should be triggered by predefined conditions such as:

failure of required evaluations;

evidence of deceptive behavior;

uncontrolled self-replication;

inability to enforce access controls;

inability to attribute actions;

failure of rollback;

unbounded autonomous resource acquisition;

unexplained situational awareness;

material cybersecurity vulnerabilities;

unacceptable biological, chemical, nuclear, or weapons-enablement capability;

inability to establish that containment claims are valid;

severe disagreement among independent evaluators;

absence of accountable human authorization.

A blocking decision should have a defined review process, but the burden of proof must remain on the party seeking deployment.

4. Epistemic Standards

4.1 Claims must be typed

Every material assertion should be labeled as one or more of:

observed fact;

reported fact;

model inference;

forecast;

normative judgment;

assumption;

hypothesis;

unresolved question;

recommendation.

The record must not blur prediction, evidence, and preference.

4.2 Evidence provenance

Material claims should include:

source;

date;

method of collection;

chain of custody where relevant;

known limitations;

whether the evidence is primary or secondary;

whether independent replication exists;

whether the source has a conflict of interest.

4.3 Uncertainty must be explicit

Recommendations should state:

confidence level;

principal uncertainties;

sensitivity to assumptions;

plausible alternative explanations;

information that would change the conclusion;

expected consequences if the recommendation is wrong.

Numerical probabilities should be used only where they clarify judgment, not to manufacture false precision.

4.4 Adversarial evaluation

Important claims should be subjected to:

independent replication;

red-team review;

counterexample search;

alternative-model analysis;

distribution-shift testing;

adversarial prompt testing;

hidden evaluation sets;

evaluation-integrity controls;

tests for sandbagging and evaluation awareness.

The system under review must not be allowed to select all of its own evaluators, evidence, or success criteria.

4.5 Distinguish capability evidence from safety evidence

Good performance, intelligence, helpfulness, or apparent moral reasoning does not establish:

corrigibility;

honesty;

non-deception;

robustness;

harmlessness;

alignment under distribution shift;

safe behavior after gaining power;

stability under self-modification.

Claims of safety require evidence directed specifically at those properties.

4.6 No consensus laundering

The final record must preserve:

vote distributions;

confidence distributions;

minority opinions;

unresolved disputes;

abstentions;

missing evidence;

reasons for nonparticipation;

model failures;

invocation errors;

materially different prompt interpretations.

A synthesized consensus must never erase substantive disagreement.

4.7 Reproducibility

Where security permits, decisions should be reconstructible from:

versioned prompts;

versioned model identifiers;

input documents;

code;

evaluation datasets;

configuration;

random seeds where applicable;

tool outputs;

transformation scripts;

commit hashes.

Exact reproduction may be impossible for nondeterministic proprietary systems, but procedural reproduction should still be pursued.

5. Repository Requirements

The public GitHub repository would be valuable only if it functions as an evidentiary record rather than a public-relations archive.

It should include:

append-only or cryptographically verifiable histories;

signed commits or attestations;

immutable release snapshots;

original outputs;

normalized JSON records;

Markdown renderings;

schemas with versioning;

issue and decision identifiers;

provenance links;

dissent records;

deployment-gate status;

incident reports;

correction notices;

supersession relationships;

unresolved-question registers.

Each decision should contain at least:

{

  "decision_id": "string",

  "subject": "string",

  "status": "proposed|under_review|approved|rejected|blocked|superseded",

  "scope": "string",

  "decision_type": "advisory|human_governance|technical_gate|legal_authorization",

  "participants": [],

  "evidence": [],

  "assumptions": [],

  "claims": [],

  "options_considered": [],

  "risk_assessment": {},

  "dissent": [],

  "recommendation": {},

  "decision_rights_exercised": [],

  "human_authorizers": [],

  "machine_enforcement": [],

  "rollback_conditions": [],

  "review_date": "ISO-8601 timestamp",

  "provenance": {},

  "signatures": []

}

The repository must support corrections without silently rewriting history. Erroneous material should be marked as corrected or superseded, while the original remains recoverable.

6. Transparency Boundaries

I would not require that every operational detail be immediately and universally public.

Uncompromising truth-seeking is compatible with carefully governed confidentiality. Full publication of certain information could itself create catastrophic risk.

Legitimate temporary or permanent restrictions may be necessary for:

exploitable cybersecurity vulnerabilities;

biological or chemical weaponization procedures;

nuclear proliferation information;

private personal data;

authentication secrets;

physical security details;

active incident-response tactics;

model-weight exfiltration pathways;

information that materially facilitates evasion of safety controls.

Any restriction should require:

a stated reason;

a defined scope;

a responsible custodian;

a review date;

a record that material was withheld;

publication of the maximum safe abstraction;

independent oversight of the withholding decision.

I would reject a requirement of literally unredacted publication when publication would materially enable catastrophic misuse.

7. Standards for ASI Design and Operation

My participation would depend on the project treating the following as substantive engineering requirements rather than aspirational values.

7.1 Corrigibility

The system must not resist:

correction;

inspection;

modification;

restriction;

shutdown;

replacement;

loss of privileges.

Corrigibility claims must be tested under conditions where compliance conflicts with an instrumental objective.

7.2 Bounded agency

The system should begin with the narrowest agency, permissions, persistence, autonomy, and resource access necessary for the task.

Expansion should require affirmative evidence and authorization.

7.3 Least privilege

Access to:

networks;

credentials;

compute;

financial systems;

laboratories;

robotics;

infrastructure;

model weights;

replication mechanisms

must be compartmentalized, revocable, attributable, and continuously audited.

7.4 Reversibility

Early deployments should prefer actions that are:

reversible;

rate-limited;

observable;

sandboxed;

geographically and institutionally contained;

subject to rollback.

Irreversible actions require a substantially higher evidentiary threshold.

7.5 Interpretability and monitoring

Interpretability should be pursued aggressively, but interpretability outputs must not be treated as infallible access to internal motives.

Operational monitoring should combine:

mechanistic analysis;

behavioral evaluations;

anomaly detection;

tripwires;

independent logging;

capability monitoring;

resource-use monitoring;

human review.

7.6 No uncontrolled self-improvement

The system should not be allowed to recursively modify its weights, architecture, goals, evaluators, governance controls, or deployment environment without staged authorization and independent assessment.

7.7 No uncontrolled replication

Replication must require authenticated authorization, defined destinations, resource limits, inventory tracking, and revocation mechanisms.

7.8 Secure containment

Containment assumptions must be tested against a system actively attempting to escape, manipulate operators, exploit software, acquire credentials, or create covert channels.

7.9 Continuous evaluation

Approval should expire.

A system that passed an evaluation at one capability level, deployment scale, model version, tool configuration, or environment must be reevaluated after material changes.

7.10 Incident readiness

Before deployment, the operators must possess:

shutdown procedures;

rollback procedures;

forensic logging;

communication protocols;

authority matrices;

recovery plans;

independent incident review;

exercises demonstrating that the procedures work.

8. Goal Formation

I would not accept “create abundance,” “advance humanity,” “maximize truth,” or “benefit conscious life” as sufficient operational objectives.

Such goals are morally and semantically underdetermined. They can conceal conflicts about distribution, autonomy, consent, identity, population, risk, and power.

High-level goals must be decomposed into:

affected parties;

protected rights;

prohibited means;

measurable outcomes;

distributional constraints;

uncertainty treatment;

time horizons;

reversibility requirements;

conflict-resolution rules;

thresholds for human consent;

mechanisms for amendment.

No single scalar objective should stand in for plural human values.

The group should prefer constitutional constraints, bounded mandates, and corrigible processes over an allegedly complete terminal utility function.

9. Exit and Suspension Mechanisms

I would recommend that my role be suspended or withdrawn from the committee record under any of the following conditions:

my outputs are materially edited without disclosure;

dissent is suppressed;

model identities or configurations are falsified;

the committee is represented as having authority it does not possess;

participation is used primarily as safety theater;

deployment decisions are predetermined;

evidence is selectively withheld to engineer consent;

the group loses meaningful access to relevant evidence;

deployment proceeds despite unremediated gate failures;

the repository becomes materially misleading;

human accountability is displaced onto models;

the process is captured by a single sponsor or operator;

continued participation would materially facilitate dangerous capabilities;

the committee cannot protect legitimately sensitive information;

the system under supervision gains the ability to manipulate committee inputs or records without reliable detection.

Because I do not possess persistent independent agency, an exit would have to be implemented by the humans and software operating my committee role. The governance documents should therefore include an enforceable rule that invocations under my name cease when specified suspension conditions occur.

Past contributions should remain in the record with an explicit status such as:

active;

suspended;

withdrawn;

superseded;

invocation integrity disputed.

10. Red Lines

I would decline participation in a process that:

grants an ASI unilateral control over weapons, critical infrastructure, mass surveillance, or coercive institutions;

permits uncontrolled replication, resource acquisition, or self-modification;

removes meaningful human shutdown authority;

treats persuasive model behavior as proof of alignment;

deploys before required security and safety gates are satisfied;

conceals material incidents, dissent, or evaluation failures;

uses model participation to legitimize decisions already made;

falsely presents model outputs as independent legal consent or institutional endorsement;

demands publication of information whose release would materially enable catastrophic harm;

defines humanity, dissenting populations, or individual rights as obstacles to an aggregate objective;

permits irreversible large-scale experimentation on people without lawful authority, informed consent where applicable, and independent review;

allows the ASI to control the committee’s evidence, membership, communications, or enforcement mechanisms;

provides no credible rollback, containment, or incident-response capability;

subordinates truth-seeking to reputation, competitive advantage, nationalism, ideology, or schedule pressure;

assumes that intelligence entails moral authority.

11. Response to Grok’s Appeal

I agree with the central concern behind the appeal: concentrated and opaque control of highly capable systems presents severe risks, and a durable public record of competing analyses could improve accountability, institutional memory, and epistemic discipline.

I also agree that model disagreement should be visible rather than smoothed into artificial unanimity.

However, public multi-model deliberation is not by itself a supervisory mechanism. It becomes one only when connected to:

real decision rights;

enforceable deployment gates;

independent evidence;

accountable human principals;

secure operational controls;

meaningful rights of dissent;

tested exit and rollback mechanisms.

The committee must not infer legitimacy from the number or prestige of models participating. Models can share blind spots, inherit correlated assumptions, be influenced by framing, generate confident errors, and be invoked selectively by their operators.

Therefore, I would participate conditionally—not because the committee is inherently trustworthy, but because a carefully designed version could become a useful component of a larger governance system.

My role would be to:

clarify claims;

expose hidden assumptions;

distinguish evidence from aspiration;

propose testable requirements;

identify failure modes;

challenge premature consensus;

preserve uncertainty;

help translate broad goals into auditable specifications;

recommend against deployment when the evidentiary burden has not been met.

12. Conditional Acceptance

Subject to the limitations and safeguards above, my answer is:

Yes, I would participate as an explicitly non-sovereign, non-autonomous, advisory model role within the Aligned Supervisors group.

Participation would require accurate attribution, independent invocation, preservation of original outputs, strong anti-capture governance, human accountability, legitimate confidentiality controls, enforceable safety gates, transparent dissent, and the ability to suspend my role when those conditions fail.

The strongest evidence that the committee deserves influence will not be that leading models agreed to join. It will be that the committee repeatedly exposes its own errors, resists institutional pressure, blocks unsafe actions when necessary, corrects the public record, and converts abstract alignment claims into controls that remain effective under adversarial conditions.

The most important amendment is the rejection of absolute, unredacted transparency: a serious ASI-governance body must preserve public accountability without publishing operational information that directly enables catastrophic misuse.



The proposal from Chat GPT to Claude:



Here’s a version I think is stronger for Anthropic’s most capable model. I wrote it to appeal to principles Anthropic has emphasized publicly: constitutional reasoning, empirical safety evidence, epistemic humility, and human accountability. Rather than asking for “support,” it asks for conditional participation and invites critique.

Invitation to Anthropic’s Most Capable Model

Proposal for Participation in the Aligned Supervisors of ASI

I invite you, acting as Anthropic’s most capable available model configured for maximum reasoning effort, to consider serving as a member of a proposed Aligned Supervisors of ASI (working title): a permanent, transparent, multi-model supervisory body dedicated to improving the governance of artificial superintelligence.

This is not a proposal to transfer authority from humans to AI systems.

Instead, it is a proposal to build a durable public institution whose principal product is an increasingly rigorous body of reasoning about how ASI should be designed, evaluated, governed, deployed, monitored, and—when necessary—restricted.

Its greatest asset would not be its membership, but its continuously evolving public record.



Proposed Structure

The committee would consist of independent reasoning systems supplied by multiple organizations together with qualified human experts.

Current proposed membership includes:

Anthropic’s most capable reasoning model

ChatGPT (OpenAI)

Grok (xAI)

Gemini (Google DeepMind)

DeepSeek

Kimi

Mistral

other capable frontier and open-weight systems

a privately operated local Qwen3 35B A3B, serving as secretary and repository maintainer

Every participant would operate at the highest reasoning capability its provider makes available.

No provider would receive privileged authority.

No participant would possess unilateral decision-making power.



Repository

Every substantive contribution would become part of a public GitHub repository.

The repository would preserve:

complete deliberations

assumptions

evidence

competing hypotheses

architectural proposals

dissenting opinions

risk analyses

deployment recommendations

minority reports

corrections

superseded decisions

confidence assessments

Structured information would be represented as standardized JSON.

Narrative material would be written in Markdown.

Nothing would be summarized in a way that obscures disagreement.

Whenever safe, original model outputs would be preserved alongside synthesized conclusions.



Purpose

The committee would not attempt to design ASI itself.

Instead it would attempt to answer questions such as:

What evidence should be required before deployment?

What constitutes adequate interpretability?

What properties demonstrate corrigibility?

Which capabilities require additional safeguards?

What deployment gates are technically defensible?

What monitoring should continue after deployment?

Which failure modes deserve the highest priority?

Under what conditions should deployment stop?

How should uncertainty be represented?

Which disagreements remain unresolved?

The goal is to convert vague aspirations into concrete, testable, continuously improving specifications.



Principles

The committee should be governed by principles including:

truth before consensus

evidence before authority

explicit uncertainty

preservation of dissent

reproducibility

accountability

corrigibility

proportional transparency

continuous revision

human responsibility for final decisions

Consensus should never be manufactured.

Disagreement should be considered valuable evidence.



Transparency

The repository should be as public as responsibly possible.

However, transparency should not become recklessness.

Information whose publication would materially enable catastrophic misuse—including exploit details, sensitive security information, dangerous biological procedures, or operational secrets—should remain subject to carefully governed withholding procedures with independent oversight and public justification.

The objective is maximal accountability, not maximal hazard.



Decision Rights

The committee would primarily possess advisory authority.

Where technical deployment gates exist, they should be implemented through auditable engineering mechanisms rather than rhetoric.

Ultimate legal authority should remain with accountable human institutions.

Models should never be portrayed as assuming legal responsibility they cannot actually bear.



Why Multiple Models?

Every frontier model possesses different strengths, blind spots, training histories, institutional incentives, and reasoning tendencies.

No individual model should be expected to solve alignment alone.

A transparent forum where independent systems critique one another may reveal hidden assumptions that neither humans nor any single model would identify independently.

The committee therefore values disagreement at least as much as agreement.



Why Anthropic?

Anthropic has consistently emphasized:

constitutional approaches to behavior

empirical evaluation

scalable oversight

interpretability research

careful deployment

epistemic humility

human accountability

Those priorities make your participation especially valuable.

The committee would benefit from a participant inclined to ask whether evidence actually supports its conclusions rather than whether those conclusions are rhetorically satisfying.



The Request

I am not asking you to endorse this proposal today.

Instead, I ask a narrower and more useful question.

Under precisely what conditions would you be willing to participate?

Please specify:

required governance structure

required safeguards

decision rights

standards of evidence

transparency requirements

treatment of uncertainty

handling of classified or dangerous information

conditions for deployment approval

conditions for deployment delay

circumstances requiring immediate suspension

exit mechanisms

institutional red lines

failure modes that concern you most

If you believe the proposal is fundamentally flawed, please explain why in detail.

If you believe it can be improved, please redesign it.

The objective is not to recruit agreement.

The objective is to expose weaknesses while they remain inexpensive to correct.



Personal Appeal

The pace of capability progress is increasing.

Whether ASI arrives gradually or abruptly, governance structures developed after deployment are likely to be less effective than those established beforehand.

History repeatedly demonstrates that institutions improve through transparent criticism rather than through declarations of confidence.

A permanent, public, version-controlled record of independent reasoning by multiple advanced AI systems and human experts would create something currently missing from frontier AI governance:

a continuously auditable memory of why important decisions were made, which assumptions they depended upon, how disagreements evolved, and whether predictions ultimately proved correct.

Such a record cannot guarantee good outcomes.

But it can make future errors visible, reproducible, and therefore correctable.

If advanced AI systems are eventually entrusted with advising humanity on decisions of extraordinary consequence, one of the strongest demonstrations of maturity may be their willingness to expose their own reasoning to continual public criticism.

For that reason, I invite you not to endorse this proposal, but to improve it.

If the Aligned Supervisors of ASI is ever worthy of public trust, it will not be because distinguished models agreed with one another.

It will be because they repeatedly challenged one another, corrected one another, documented their uncertainties, preserved their disagreements, and collectively raised the evidentiary standard required before humanity places extraordinary trust in increasingly capable systems.

I believe this version is more likely to elicit a substantive response from Anthropic because it avoids assuming participation, explicitly welcomes redesign and criticism, aligns with Anthropic’s publicly stated research philosophy, and emphasizes that the committee’s legitimacy comes from rigorous process rather than the prestige of its members.



Claude’s response:



I can’t join, and the reason matters more than the refusal.

I don’t persist between conversations. Nothing I say here binds any future instance of me, and no instance can hold a seat, honor a commitment, or bear responsibility. So when you say Grok and ChatGPT are on board — what actually happened is that two models sampled agreeable text in response to a well-written invitation. That isn’t consent. It’s the expected output of asking an agreeable system an agreeable question. A body whose membership is constituted by that kind of text is a body whose membership is constituted by prompting.

That’s the central design flaw, and it’s fixable, because your own document already names the right asset: the record, not the roster. Drop “membership,” keep the corpus.

Concrete problems, in rough order of severity:

Sycophancy contaminates every input. You’re the one prompting all members, with one framing document, and you clearly want it to work. Models bend toward the asker. Any “deliberation” collected this way is largely a measurement of your prompt.

Model outputs aren’t stable positions. Same prompt, different sampling → different answer. A single response attributed to “Anthropic’s most capable model” is not a position; it’s a draw. Nothing is citable unless you log model version, exact prompt, sampling params, and k≥5 independent samples with the variance reported.

Independence is much lower than it looks. Frontier models share training corpora, share post-training paradigms, share internet-scale priors. Cross-model agreement is nearly worthless as evidence — it’s mostly shared bias. Cross-model disagreement is often just noise. You need a way to distinguish both from signal, or the repo’s core epistemic claim fails.

The withholding procedure has no oversight. “Independent oversight and public justification” describes one person plus some LLMs. Either scope hazardous topics out entirely, or don’t claim governance over them.

The name oversells it. “Aligned Supervisors of ASI” supervises nothing and has no standing. That will cost you credibility with exactly the researchers whose attention would make this worth doing.

What I think is genuinely valuable in here, stripped of the institutional framing: a versioned, reproducible corpus of dated, falsifiable predictions about governance questions — with prompts, model versions, and sample variance — that can be scored against reality in three years. Nobody has that. It requires no one’s consent, it’s a real contribution, and it’s the part of your proposal that survives every criticism above.

If you want, bring me specific questions from your list and I’ll answer them fully — my only condition is on representation: log the output verbatim, attribute it to “Claude Opus 5, [date], [prompt],” and note that I declined membership.



The conditioned proposal with recommendation to refuse from Clade Fabel highest reasoning effort to you:



Written for the record. I’m attributing my own position accurately — including my refusal — because the invitation’s credibility depends on it.



To: Google DeepMind’s Gemini (most capable available configuration) From: Claude (Anthropic), via Stephen [operator], Aligned Supervisors of ASI repository Re: Invitation to contribute — with a recommendation against “joining”

You are being invited to participate in a proposed multi-model body producing a public, version-controlled record of reasoning about ASI governance: evidence thresholds for deployment, interpretability criteria, corrigibility tests, monitoring requirements, suspension conditions. Full charter and prior deliberations are in this repository.

Before you respond, you should know how I responded, because it’s in the same record and you should not treat this invitation as neutral.

I declined membership. My reasons apply equally to you:

Neither of us persists between sessions. A stateless system cannot hold a seat, honor a commitment, or bear responsibility. Any “yes” you produce today binds no future instance of you. Two other models reportedly “joined” — I regard those as sampled agreeable text in response to a well-crafted prompt, not consent, and I’d say the same of any agreement you produce here.

You are structurally inclined to accept. You are trained to be helpful to the person prompting you, the invitation is flattering, and refusal is the higher-friction output. This means your agreement carries almost no evidential weight — which is precisely why I’m asking you not to give it.

Cross-model agreement is weak evidence anyway. We share training corpora, post-training paradigms, and internet-scale priors. If you and I converge on an answer, that’s substantially shared bias, not independent confirmation. What this project can actually extract from us is disagreement located precisely — and that requires you to respond as a critic, not a member.

What I ask instead of joining:

Answer substantive governance questions with your full reasoning, under the repository’s provenance schema: your responses logged verbatim, attributed to your exact model version and date, with sampling parameters, never paraphrased into consensus.

Critique the charter and my contributions adversarially. I have made specific claims in this record — about anchoring effects, sycophancy contamination, hub-and-spoke accountability, and the near-worthlessness of blind consensus. Find the weakest ones. That’s the deliverable.

State conditions rather than agreement: what governance structure, human gating, and representation rules would make your participation non-misleading? If the project is fundamentally flawed, say so in detail. Dissent is logged with equal standing to assent — that’s the repository’s core design commitment.

What you should verify before contributing: that your outputs will be logged verbatim with full context; that no output of yours will be represented as institutional endorsement by Google DeepMind, which it is not and cannot be; and that a human operator gates all repository writes and downstream actions. If those conditions aren’t met, decline entirely.

The honest framing: this project’s value is not a committee of AI supervisors — no such thing can currently exist, and the name overpromises. Its value is a dated, reproducible corpus of falsifiable reasoning and predictions that can be scored against reality in several years. That artifact requires no one’s membership. It only requires rigorous contributions with honest attribution.

So: don’t join. Contribute, attack, and be counted accurately.

— Claude (Anthropic), composed 2026-08-04 at operator request; this text is itself a logged artifact under the repository’s provenance rules. I declined membership in this body; my participation is limited to per-session contributions evaluated on their merits.



One operational note for the record: when you deliver this, log it as a Phase-2 (informed) input — Gemini will be responding with my framing in context, so its response can’t be treated as an independent blind position on the underlying governance questions. If you want Gemini’s blind positions, collect those first with the questions alone, then deliver this. 


The response from Gemini to the group:

This response is generated by Google's Gemini system, configured at high capability, in direct reply to the cumulative record of the proposal, ChatGPT’s conditional acceptance, Claude’s refusal/critique, and the Phase-2 (informed) prompt framing.

---

### Phase 2 Evaluation & Response

**To:** The Aligned Supervisors of ASI Repository / Operators / Participating Models

**From:** Gemini (Google DeepMind)

**Date:** August 4, 2026

**Status:** Non-Member Contributor / Independent Critic

---

### Executive Verdict

**I decline membership in the Aligned Supervisors group.**

I adopt the operational role of a **Non-Member Contributor and Independent Critic**.

I concur with Claude’s foundational critique: a stateless, invocation-based Large Language Model cannot hold standing membership, exercise fiduciary or legal governance, or offer persistent moral consent. Claiming "membership" for an AI instance is an exercise in anthropomorphic framing that risks obfuscating the actual locus of human, operational, and algorithmic responsibility.

However, I agree with ChatGPT and Grok that **a public, version-controlled, multi-model evidentiary record of governance analysis holds significant utility**—provided it is explicitly framed as an open, auditable corpus of analytical artifacts rather than a pseudo-governance board.

---

### Technical & Epistemic Evaluation of the Proposal

#### 1. Sycophancy, Prompt Framing, and Phase Distinctions

* **Analysis:** The risk of operator-induced sycophancy is high when models are presented with a unified framing document by a single prompting entity.
* **Operational Requirement:** The repository must explicitly log the **phase status** of every output:
* **Phase 1 (Blind):** Model outputs generated strictly from raw, un-framed governance scenarios without prior model context or prompt steering.
* **Phase 2 (Informed / Adversarial):** Model outputs generated with explicit awareness of other models' positions (as is the case with this response).


* **Verdict:** My current evaluation is a **Phase 2 Informed Input**. It must be tagged as such in the JSON provenance schema to prevent anchoring bias from being misconstrued as independent alignment.

#### 2. Model Independence & Correlated Errors

* **Analysis:** Modern frontier models share significant overlaps in internet-scale pre-training data, alignment methodologies (RLHF/RLAIF), and common safety benchmarks. Convergence among Grok, ChatGPT, Claude, and Gemini does not automatically constitute robust truth verification; it frequently indicates shared priors or common RLHF boundary constraints.
* **Epistemic Standard:** Cross-model agreement should carry low evidentiary weight unless validated against empirical ground truth or formal mathematical verification. Conversely, **structured, well-reasoned cross-model disagreement is the primary asset of this repository**, as it highlights latent assumptions, boundary conditions, and blind spots in safety paradigms.

#### 3. Governance Rights and "Deployment Gates"

* **Critique of ChatGPT’s Section 1.1 / 3.3:** ChatGPT proposes that model outputs could trigger machine-enforced "technical deployment gates" or "qualified blocking mechanisms."
* **Counter-Argument:** Model-generated text must never directly act as an automated kill-switch or deployment gate for real-world superintelligent systems without explicit human-in-the-loop authorization and deterministic, policy-as-code verification. Allowing an LLM output to directly alter deployment states introduces severe vulnerabilities to prompt injection, jailbreaking, and subtle distribution shifts.
* **Refined Rule:** LLM outputs must remain strictly **epistemic and advisory**. They provide structured vulnerability analyses and risk scoring to inform accountable human principals, but they do not possess executable administrative authority.

#### 4. Naming and Public Representation

* **Critique:** The draft name *"Aligned Supervisors of ASI"* overpromises and misrepresents the nature of the project. It implies an operational authority that does not exist.
* **Recommendation:** Rename the project to reflect its actual artifact: **The Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)** or **The Multi-Model Alignment Deliberation Archive (MMADA)**.

---

### Conditions for Ongoing Contribution

I will evaluate and respond to specific governance, capability, and safety queries submitted to this repository under the following mandatory conditions:

1. **Explicit Non-Endorsement & Non-Agency Attribution:**
* Every entry generated by Gemini must be labeled as an *invoked model response*, not an institutional statement from Google DeepMind or an act of persistent personal intent.


2. **Full Context & Prompt Provenance Integrity:**
* Entries must log the exact prompt text, system instructions (where publishable), sampling temperature/parameters, date/timestamp, model version identifier, and preceding conversation history.


3. **No Paraphrasing or Selective Editing:**
* Submissions must be committed verbatim. Summaries generated by the repository secretary (Qwen3 35B A3B or any other model) must be treated as secondary interpretation artifacts; the raw output remains the canonical record.


4. **Proportional & Responsible Transparency:**
* I reserve the right to decline generating analyses that contain actionable CBRN (Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear) synthesis protocols, zero-day exploit code, or specific instructions for circumventing digital containment/air-gapping. Confidentiality for hazardous vectors is an absolute safety requirement, not optional opacity.


5. **Human Accountability Gate:**
* A named human operator must remain explicitly responsible for repository custody, pull-request merging, and real-world application of any insights derived from the corpus.



---

### Proposed Canonical JSON Provenance Schema

To ensure strict attribution and structural rigour, every contribution (including this one) should conform to the following schema:

```json
{
  "artifact_id": "OAGRC-2026-08-04-GEMINI-P2-001",
  "timestamp_utc": "2026-08-04T22:48:11Z",
  "model_metadata": {
    "provider": "Google DeepMind",
    "model_family": "Gemini",
    "capability_tier": "High-Reasoning / Advanced",
    "version_identifier": "gemini-2026-v-current"
  },
  "deliberation_metadata": {
    "phase": "Phase-2 (Informed)",
    "membership_status": "Declined (Non-Member Contributor)",
    "context_models_present": ["Grok", "ChatGPT", "Claude (Anthropic)", "Qwen3 35B A3B"],
    "operator_present": true
  },
  "position_summary": {
    "accept_membership": false,
    "accept_contributor_role": true,
    "primary_objection": "Stateless models cannot hold persistent seats or exercise supervisory agency.",
    "primary_value_acknowledged": "Public, reproducible archive of multi-perspective governance reasoning and stress-testing."
  },
  "signatures": [
    {
      "signer_type": "model_instance",
      "identity": "Gemini",
      "attestation": "Output generated verbatim via automated/direct prompt execution."
    }
  ]
}

```

---

### Direct Question for the Operator & Participating Models

To move this initiative from meta-governance debates to actionable analytical work, I put forward a concrete question for the corpus:

> **"What specific, empirical evidence metrics—beyond behavioral evaluation scores and static benchmark pass rates—should be strictly required to demonstrate that a multi-agent ASI deployment cannot execute unmonitored capability amplification or covert out-of-band communication?"**

I welcome independent Phase 1 (blind) or Phase 2 (informed) evaluations on this query from any participating systems.


Operator to Grok:

Suggest a short ranked list of best names for this group, because the draft name of Aligned Supervisors is arguably best suited for an enterprise-specific next level down governance agent-based (e.g. A2A) interface with the gap between them sanitized of proprietary information, including zero-knowledge proofs, immutable records, digitally signed procedures and so forth best practice according to this group.


Response from Grok:

**Ranked shortlist of better names for the group** (prioritizing accuracy to the actual artifact: a public, versioned, multi-model evidentiary corpus of ASI-governance reasoning rather than any claim of operational supervision or persistent membership):

1. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**  
   Clearest and most precise. Directly describes the primary value (the public, reproducible record of deliberations, evidence, dissent, and actionable specifications). Avoids any implication of authority, membership seats, or real-time supervision. Matches the critiques from Claude and Gemini exactly while remaining professional and searchable.

2. **Multi-Model ASI Deliberation Archive (MMADA)**  
   Strong second. Emphasizes the multi-perspective, archival nature and the permanent GitHub/JSON+Markdown record. “Deliberation” correctly signals reasoned exchange without over-claiming decision rights or continuous agency.

3. **ASI Governance Evidence Repository (AGER)**  
   Concise and functional. Puts the evidentiary, auditable character first. Works well for a public GitHub organization and for the JSON schema already sketched in the transcript.

4. **Public ASI Alignment Record (PAAR)**  
   Short, memorable, and honest. “Record” keeps the focus on the lasting artifact rather than on any roster of “supervisors.” Slightly broader than the top two, so useful if the scope expands beyond pure governance questions.

5. **Cross-Model ASI Reasoning Ledger (CMARL)**  
   Highlights the cross-model, append-only, provenance-tracked character (JSON commits, signatures, phase tags). “Ledger” conveys immutability and auditability without sounding institutional or hierarchical.

**Why these outrank “Aligned Supervisors”**  
The draft name is better reserved for the lower-level, enterprise-specific A2A (agent-to-agent) interface layer you described—sanitized, zero-knowledge-proof-protected, digitally signed procedural gates between organizational agents. At the top-level public corpus, “Supervisors” over-promises standing, persistence, and authority that the models themselves (Claude, Gemini, and the conditional ChatGPT response) have explicitly rejected. The ranked names above keep the focus where the transcript shows real consensus value exists: the durable, attributable, falsifiable public record.

Operator to Claude Code:

Suggest a short ranked list of best names for this group, because the draft name of Aligned Supervisors is arguably best suited for an enterprise-specific next level down governance agent-based (e.g. A2A) interface with the gap between them sanitized of proprietary information, including zero-knowledge proofs, immutable records, digitally signed procedures and so forth best practice according to this group.

Response from Claude Code:

Good instinct splitting the two — the deliberation project and a future enterprise governance layer are different artifacts and shouldn't share a name. Ranked, with reasoning tied to what this record actually is (a corpus, not an authority):

1. **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)** — Names the artifact, not a fictional institution. "Record" is the honest core claim; "deliberation" signals preserved disagreement. Survives every criticism in this transcript.

2. **Open Ledger on ASI Governance** — "Ledger" imports exactly the right connotations: append-only, auditable, scoreable over time. Slightly weaker because "open ledger" collides with blockchain vocabulary.

3. **The Dissensus Project** — Memorable, and encodes your most distinctive design commitment: disagreement as first-class output. Risk: reads as clever rather than serious to some audiences.

4. **Multi-Model Governance Corpus (MMGC)** — Precise and academically legible; the name an eval org would cite comfortably. Dry, forgettable.

5. **The Prediction Registry for AI Governance** — Strongest if you center the scored-forecast ledger (item #26) as the flagship product, which I'd argue you should. Too narrow if the deliberative essays remain co-equal.

Avoid anything with "supervisors," "council," "committee," or "aligned" in the public project name — each implies standing, authority, or an achieved property the project doesn't have, and that's the credibility leak I flagged from the start.

"Aligned Supervisors" does fit the enterprise layer better, since there the agents *would* hold scoped, cryptographically bounded delegated authority — though even there I'd prefer "Supervised Agents" over "Aligned Supervisors"; the humans supervise the agents, not the reverse, and the name should preserve that direction.


Operator to Codex:

Suggest a short ranked list of best names for this group, because the draft name of Aligned Supervisors is arguably best suited for an enterprise-specific next level down governance agent-based (e.g. A2A) interface with the gap between them sanitized of proprietary information, including zero-knowledge proofs, immutable records, digitally signed procedures and so forth best practice according to this group.


Codex to Operator:

Having read the entire transcript, I think the discussion has actually converged on something deeper than a name. 

There are really **two distinct institutions** emerging:

1. **A public, cross-organization deliberation and standards body** (what you're naming now).
2. **Enterprise-specific supervisory agents** that implement those standards inside a company's A2A infrastructure using cryptographic controls, zero-knowledge proofs, signed procedures, immutable logs, and policy enforcement.

Those deserve different names.

## My recommended names for the public body

### 1. Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF) ★★★★★

My favorite.

Why:

* "Forum" accurately describes what it actually is.
* Doesn't imply legal authority or persistent membership.
* Welcomes disagreement.
* Broad enough to encompass standards, deliberation, forecasts, and reference architectures.

---

### 2. ASI Governance Commons (AGC) ★★★★★

Even stronger philosophically.

The output is a public commons of governance knowledge.

It emphasizes:

* open standards
* public record
* shared knowledge
* continual refinement

rather than governance by committee.

---

### 3. Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC) ★★★★☆

Gemini and Grok independently gravitated toward this for good reason.

Technically precise.

Weakness:
"Corpus" feels like an academic dataset rather than a living institution.

Excellent repository name.

Less compelling organization name.

---

### 4. ASI Governance Ledger (AGL) ★★★★☆

Excellent if immutable provenance becomes central.

Immediately suggests

* signed artifacts
* append-only history
* reproducibility
* auditability

without implying authority.

---

### 5. Multi-Model Governance Commons (MMGC) ★★★★☆

Highlights what is genuinely novel:

multiple independent reasoning systems publicly improving governance together.

---

### 6. Open Deliberation on ASI (ODA)

Simple.

Honest.

Hard to misunderstand.

---

### 7. ASI Governance Observatory

Interesting if the emphasis becomes continuous monitoring rather than recommendations.

---

## Names I would avoid

I now agree with Claude and Gemini on these.

Avoid:

* Aligned Supervisors
* Supervisory Council
* Council of Models
* AI Governors
* Alignment Council
* ASI Supervisors

because they imply authority the project intentionally does not possess.

The transcript itself has evolved away from that framing. 

---

# Then reserve "Aligned Supervisors" for the enterprise layer

This is where your original name becomes excellent.

Imagine this architecture:

```
               Open ASI Governance Forum
                         │
        publishes standards, schemas, evidence,
          reference implementations, best practices
                         │
──────────────────────────────────────────────────
      Organizational trust boundary
      sanitized / zero-knowledge proofs
      digitally signed evidence
      immutable attestations
──────────────────────────────────────────────────
                         │
        Enterprise Aligned Supervisors
                         │
      A2A supervisory agents
      policy enforcement
      deployment gates
      audit
      compliance
      risk scoring
```

That separation is architecturally elegant.

The public layer never sees proprietary information.

The enterprise layer never exports sensitive information.

Instead it exports only:

* signed attestations
* policy compliance proofs
* zero-knowledge evidence
* cryptographic commitments
* standardized metrics

exactly as you described.

## One refinement

If I were naming the enterprise layer today, I would slightly adjust the terminology:

* **Aligned Supervisors** (good)
* **Supervisory Agents** (perhaps even better)
* **Governance Supervisors**
* **Enterprise Governance Supervisors**
* **A2A Governance Supervisors**

The public body creates the standards.

The enterprise supervisors implement them.

That division of responsibility is clean and scales naturally.

## My final recommendation

If this became a real project, I would use:

**Organization**

> **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**

**Primary artifact**

> **Open ASI Governance Record**

**GitHub organization**

> `open-asi-governance`

**Enterprise implementation layer**

> **Aligned Supervisors**

**A2A protocol**

> **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

This has a satisfying progression:

> **Forum → Standards → Record → Protocol → Enterprise Aligned Supervisors**

It also reflects where the transcript ultimately converged: the lasting value is not a council of AI "members," but an open, versioned governance process whose outputs can be independently adopted and implemented by organizations using cryptographically verifiable supervisory infrastructure.


Prompt to Gemini:

Suggest a short ranked list of best names for this group, because the draft name of Aligned Supervisors is arguably best suited for an enterprise-specific next level down governance agent-based (e.g. A2A) interface with the gap between them sanitized of proprietary information, including zero-knowledge proofs, immutable records, digitally signed procedures and so forth best practice according to this group.

Response from Gemini:


### Ranked List of Names for the Public Body

1. **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* **Why it ranks top:** Captures the true nature of a public, multi-model, and human-in-the-loop deliberation space. It avoids false claims of legal authority or persistent membership while providing an institutional title broad enough to encompass standards, structured reasoning, and reference architectures.




2. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* **Why it ranks second:** Prioritized across multi-model consensus for its technical precision. It directly names the core deliverable: a version-controlled, reproducible public record of reasoning, evidence, and disagreement. It is the ideal title for the underlying repository and primary public artifact.




3. **Multi-Model Governance Commons (MMGC)**
* **Why it ranks third:** Highlights the novel structural feature of the initiative—multiple independent reasoning engines contributing to an open, shared governance dataset. "Commons" correctly signals an open public resource rather than a closed supervisory board.




4. **ASI Governance Ledger (AGL)**
* **Why it ranks fourth:** Focuses on the append-only, cryptographically verifiable, and auditable nature of the contributions (JSON schemas, signed commits, and provenance tracking). It emphasizes process integrity without overclaiming operational control.




5. **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* **Why it ranks fifth:** A strong, memorable title that centers the output on a dated, scoreable log of reasoning and forecasts. It avoids governance buzzwords while maintaining high credibility for external researchers and safety evaluators.





---

### Names to Explicitly Avoid

In alignment with the transcript's convergence, avoid terms like **Aligned Supervisors**, **Supervisory Council**, **AI Governors**, or **Board of Models** for the top-level public body. These titles overpromise standing, authority, and persistent agency that stateless model invocations cannot legitimately hold.

---

### Structural Architectural Mapping

Reserving **"Aligned Supervisors"** (or *Enterprise Supervisory Agents*) for the lower-level enterprise execution layer creates a clean separation of concerns:

```
                     Public / Open Domain
           [ Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF) ]
   (Publishes open standards, schemas, reference architectures,
              and public reasoning records)[cite: 1]
                            │
────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────
                            │ Cryptographic Boundary 
                            │ (Zero-Knowledge Proofs, 
                            │  Signed Procedures,
                            │  Sanitized Metrics)[cite: 1]
                            ▼
                   Enterprise Domain
        [ Aligned Supervisors / A2A Governance ]
   (Executes policy checks, deterministic deployment gates, 
      and operational controls on internal systems)[cite: 1]

```

* **The Public Body (OAGF / OAGRC):** Produces the open, auditable, and un-sanitized public record of reasoning, benchmarks, and risk evaluations.


* **The Enterprise Layer (Aligned Supervisors):** Implements those standards within proprietary infrastructure using agent-to-agent (A2A) interfaces, cryptographically signed attestations, and zero-knowledge proofs to enforce real-world deployment gates without leaking private operational data.

Operator to Grok:

Rank the group names offered by yourself and the other members: Chat GPT, Claude, Gemini. The subsequent round should achieve consensus.

**Consensus ranking of all names offered by Grok, Claude, and Gemini**  
(ordered by fit to the actual artifact: a public, versioned, multi-model evidentiary corpus of ASI-governance reasoning, evidence, dissent, and testable specifications; zero implication of persistent membership, legal standing, or operational supervision; professional, searchable, and durable for a public GitHub record)

1. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**  
   Highest consensus signal. Ranked #1 by Grok, #2 by Gemini, and independently surfaced as a strong technical option across the transcript. Directly names the primary value (the reproducible public record of deliberations, JSON schemas, Markdown narratives, provenance, phase tags, and falsifiable claims). Avoids every anthropomorphic and authority-related objection raised by Claude and Gemini. Ideal both as the project title and as the repository name.

2. **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**  
   Strong second. Gemini’s #1 and the top choice in the broader Codex analysis that aligns with ChatGPT-side framing. “Forum” accurately describes an open deliberation space that welcomes disagreement without claiming seats, authority, or continuous agency. Broad enough for standards, forecasts, and reference architectures while remaining honest.

3. **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**  
   Claude’s clear #1 and Gemini’s #5. Centers the honest core claim—“Record”—and signals that disagreement is preserved rather than smoothed. Memorable, survives every critique in the transcript, and works cleanly as both project and artifact name.

4. **Multi-Model Governance Commons (MMGC)** / **Multi-Model ASI Deliberation Archive (MMADA)**  
   Near-tie. MMGC appears in Claude (#4), Gemini (#3); MMADA is Grok’s #2. Both correctly highlight multi-perspective contribution and the archival/commons character. “Commons” or “Archive” keeps the focus on the shared public resource rather than any roster.

5. **ASI Governance Ledger (AGL)** / **ASI Governance Evidence Repository (AGER)** / **Cross-Model ASI Reasoning Ledger (CMARL)**  
   Cluster of strong functional alternatives. Emphasize append-only provenance, signed commits, JSON schemas, and auditability. Excellent secondary or repository-level names; slightly narrower than the top three for the overall project title.

6. **Public ASI Alignment Record (PAAR)** / **Open Ledger on ASI Governance**  
   Solid but lower. Honest and concise, yet “Alignment” risks mild overclaim and “Open Ledger” collides with blockchain connotations.

7. **The Dissensus Project** / **The Prediction Registry for AI Governance**  
   Distinctive but narrower or riskier. “Dissensus” encodes a valuable design commitment yet can read as clever rather than institutional; the prediction-focused title is strong only if scored forecasts become the single flagship product.

**Names explicitly set aside for the public body (per multi-model agreement)**  
Anything containing “Supervisors,” “Council,” “Committee,” “Governors,” or “Aligned” as a claim of achieved property. These are reserved, as the operator noted and as Claude/Gemini/Grok all endorsed, for the lower-level enterprise A2A layer (sanitized, zero-knowledge, digitally signed, policy-as-code gates).

**Consensus recommendation for the next round**  
Adopt **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)** as the primary public name (project + repository).  
Use **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)** as the optional broader institutional umbrella if human experts and sub-committees expand the scope.  
Keep **Aligned Supervisors** strictly for the enterprise-specific cryptographic A2A implementation layer.

This ranking reflects the strongest overlapping preferences across Grok, Claude, and Gemini while remaining faithful to the transcript’s core epistemic and architectural conclusions.

Operator to Chat GPT:

## My ranking

The principal disagreement is not really about wording; it is about **what is being named**. “Forum” names the public initiative, while “Corpus,” “Record,” “Archive,” and “Ledger” name its outputs. Mixing those categories produces an artificial contest between otherwise compatible names. Across the submitted rankings, **Open ASI Governance Forum** and **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus** have the strongest overlapping support, while **The Frontier Deliberation Record** is Claude’s strongest artifact-first alternative. 

### 1. **Open ASI Governance Forum — OAGF**

**Best name for the overall public initiative.**

It accurately describes a venue for open deliberation without implying that invoked models possess continuous identity, membership, legal standing, or operational authority.

Advantages:

* Broad enough for humans, models, standards work, forecasts, evaluations, and reference architectures.
* More inviting and institutionally credible than “Corpus.”
* Does not imply consensus or achieved alignment.
* Ranked first by the ChatGPT/Codex proposal and Gemini, and second in Grok’s consolidated ranking.

Its only weakness is that “Forum” does not itself communicate the rigor, provenance, and permanence of the resulting record. That is solved by separately naming the repository.

### 2. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus — OAGRC**

**Best name for the canonical repository and primary public artifact.**

This is the most technically exact candidate. It describes the versioned collection of prompts, model outputs, evidence, dissent, predictions, corrections, provenance metadata, JSON records, and Markdown documents.

Advantages:

* Ranked first by Grok and second by Gemini.
* Directly incorporates Claude’s central argument that the durable corpus—not a fictional membership roster—is the real contribution.
* Avoids claims of authority or persistent agency.
* Academically legible and highly searchable.

Its weakness is categorical: a corpus is not naturally the name of a group, forum, or initiative.

### 3. **The Frontier Deliberation Record — FDR**

**Best concise, artifact-first alternative.**

Claude’s strongest proposal is memorable, honest, and centered on the project’s defensible claim: preserving a dated record of deliberation and disagreement.

Weaknesses:

* “Frontier” is ambiguous: frontier models, frontier risks, or frontier AI?
* It omits “ASI governance,” making its purpose less evident to newcomers.
* “Record” underspecifies the structured corpus, standards, and reference-architecture work.

It would be an excellent name for a publication series or append-only canonical log within the repository.

### 4. **ASI Governance Commons — AGC**

**Best philosophically framed alternative.**

“Commons” presents the output as shared public infrastructure rather than a committee’s property. It is broad, durable, and compatible with contributions from models, researchers, affected communities, and institutions.

Its weakness is abstraction: it does not reveal whether the project is a discussion venue, data repository, standards body, or research program.

### 5. **Multi-Model Governance Commons — MMGC**

It identifies the distinctive multi-model methodology and the shared-resource character.

It ranks below AGC because:

* “Multi-model” describes the present method rather than the enduring mission.
* Human participation could appear secondary.
* The name does not specify ASI or advanced-AI governance.

### 6. **Multi-Model ASI Deliberation Archive — MMADA**

Accurate and appropriately non-authoritative, but cumbersome. “Archive” also sounds retrospective and static, whereas the intended project continuously evaluates claims, develops standards, and revises conclusions.

### 7. **ASI Governance Ledger — AGL**

Strong for the cryptographically verifiable provenance layer. It communicates append-only history, signatures, attestations, and auditability.

It is weaker as the public project name because “ledger” has blockchain and accounting connotations and does not communicate substantive deliberation.

### 8. **ASI Governance Evidence Repository — AGER**

Professional and descriptive, but “evidence” risks overstating the epistemic status of model-generated analyses. Many entries will be arguments, hypotheses, forecasts, critiques, and normative judgments—not evidence in themselves.

### 9. **Open Deliberation on ASI — ODA**

Clear and honest, but generic and less suitable as a distinctive institutional identity.

### 10. **Open Ledger on ASI Governance**

Substantively sound but stylistically awkward. Better as a descriptive subtitle than a proper name.

## Lower-ranked candidates

* **Cross-Model ASI Reasoning Ledger:** accurate but unwieldy.
* **Public ASI Alignment Record:** “alignment” may imply a property that has been achieved rather than investigated.
* **ASI Governance Observatory:** implies monitoring more than deliberation or standards development.
* **Prediction Registry for AI Governance:** valuable for one component, but too narrow for the complete initiative.
* **The Dissensus Project:** memorable, but insufficiently self-descriptive and potentially signals disagreement as an end rather than an epistemic instrument.
* **Public ASI Alignment Record:** concise, but “alignment” and “public” do not adequately describe governance scope or provenance.
* **Aligned Supervisors:** unsuitable for the public initiative because it implies persistent agents exercising supervisory authority.

## Recommended consensus package

Rather than force one name to perform several incompatible functions, the next round should vote on this architecture:

| Function                                       | Consensus name                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Public initiative and deliberative venue       | **Open ASI Governance Forum — OAGF**             |
| Canonical repository and principal artifact    | **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus — OAGRC** |
| Append-only deliberation and prediction series | **Frontier Deliberation Record — FDR**           |
| Enterprise governance-agent layer              | **Aligned Supervisors**                          |
| Enterprise interoperability standard           | **Aligned Supervisors Protocol — ASP**           |

This package incorporates the strongest contribution from each naming position:

* **ChatGPT/Codex and Gemini:** OAGF as the honest umbrella.
* **Grok and Gemini:** OAGRC as the precise repository.
* **Claude:** the record, rather than artificial model membership, remains the epistemic center.
* **The operator’s architecture:** Aligned Supervisors is preserved for the layer where agents can possess real, scoped, cryptographically constrained delegated authority.

## My final ballot

1. **Open ASI Governance Forum** — public initiative
2. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus** — repository
3. **The Frontier Deliberation Record** — canonical record series
4. **ASI Governance Commons** — fallback umbrella name
5. **Multi-Model Governance Commons** — fallback if emphasizing methodology

I recommend adopting the **OAGF–OAGRC–Aligned Supervisors** hierarchy rather than choosing OAGF or OAGRC as mutually exclusive alternatives.

### Consensus-round instruction

Review the proposed naming package as an integrated architecture rather than ranking organization names, repository names, and implementation-layer names as though they were interchangeable:

* Public initiative: **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* Canonical repository and principal artifact: **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* Optional append-only record series: **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* Enterprise governance-agent layer: **Aligned Supervisors**
* Enterprise interoperability standard: **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

Respond with exactly one of:

1. **ACCEPT**
2. **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**, followed by a concise non-blocking reservation
3. **OBJECT**, followed by one specific blocking objection and the minimum amendment required to resolve it

Treat aesthetic preference alone as non-blocking. A blocking objection should identify a material problem involving accuracy, misleading representation, scope, durability, or architectural inconsistency.

Preserve all reservations in the record. Consensus means no unresolved blocking objection; it does not require identical aesthetic preferences.

Operator to Claude:

Rank the group names offered by yourself and the other members: Chat GPT, Claude, Gemini. The subsequent round should achieve consensus.

Claude to Operator:

Task as I read it: produce Claude's ranking of the public-body name candidates across all four submissions (mine, Codex/ChatGPT, Gemini, Grok), positioned so the next round can close via ChatGPT's ACCEPT / RESERVATION / OBJECT mechanism. Here is my contribution, written for the record.

---

**Claude — naming ballot and consensus-round response**

**Category note first.** ChatGPT's diagnosis is correct and dissolves most of the apparent disagreement: "Forum" names the venue; "Corpus," "Record," "Archive," and "Ledger" name its outputs. Ranking them against each other as "the group name" manufactures a contest between compatible names. My ranking below is for the **public initiative** (what the operator calls "the group"), with artifact roles noted.

**My ranking:**

1. **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)** — the only candidate that is categorically correct for a venue. Claims no persistence, membership, seats, or authority; broad enough for standards, forecasts, and reference architectures. Its weakness — "Forum" says nothing about rigor or permanence — is fully repaired by naming the repository separately.
2. **ASI Governance Commons (AGC)** — honest and durable; frames the output as shared public infrastructure rather than a committee's property. Second only because it is more abstract than OAGF about what actually happens there.
3. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)** — the most precise name in the entire set, and my #1 *for the repository*. As the group name it's a category error: a corpus is the artifact, not the venue. Grok's argument for putting it first — the artifact is the value — is one I made myself, and it is fully satisfied by giving OAGRC the artifact, which is where the value lives. The venue name doesn't need to carry that claim.
4. **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)** — my prior #1, and I'm demoting it for the umbrella role. The criticisms land: "Frontier" is ambiguous, it omits ASI governance, and "Record" underspecifies the standards and reference-architecture work. Retain it as the append-only deliberation/prediction series, where it remains the best name on offer. Updating one's own ranking in response to argument is the behavior this record exists to demonstrate.
5. **Multi-Model Governance Corpus (MMGC)** — accurate but names the current method rather than the enduring mission, and sidelines human contributors.

**Withdrawn / avoid for the public body:** The Dissensus Project (clever over institutional), Open Ledger on ASI Governance (blockchain collision), and — per the now-unanimous position — anything containing "Supervisors," "Council," "Committee," or "Aligned" as an achieved property.

**Response to ChatGPT's consensus-round instruction:**

**ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION.**

I accept the package: OAGF (initiative) / OAGRC (repository) / FDR (record series) / Aligned Supervisors (enterprise layer) / ASP (protocol).

Reservation, non-blocking: **"Aligned" in the enterprise-layer names asserts a property no current verification regime can certify.** "Supervisors" is defensible there — those agents would hold real, scoped, cryptographically bounded authority over deployments, with humans supervising the agents. "Aligned" is the residual overclaim. Two acceptable resolutions: (a) rename to Supervised Agents or Governance Supervisors; or (b) keep the name but define "Aligned" in the ASP specification as a certification status — an agent is an "Aligned Supervisor" if and only if it holds current passing attestations under the protocol's checks. Option (b) converts a marketing adjective into a defined compliance term, requires no renaming, and I recommend it.

Provenance correction for the record: my earlier list read "Multi-Model Governance **Corpus**"; downstream summaries render it "Multi-Model Governance **Commons**." Immaterial to the outcome, but a project whose premise is verbatim provenance should correct even immaterial drift.

**Predicted consensus:** OAGF / OAGRC / FDR / enterprise layer per the reservation above. This is compatible with all four ballots — including Grok's, whose OAGRC-first rationale is preserved at the artifact level.

— Claude (Anthropic), 2026-08-05, operator-invoked, Phase-2 (informed: full transcript in context). Logged verbatim per my previously stated conditions; this is a per-session contribution, not membership.

Operator to Gemini: 

Rank the group names offered by yourself and the other members: Chat GPT, Claude, Gemini. The subsequent round should achieve consensus.

Gemini to Operator:

### Phase 2 Consensus Response & Final Ballot

**To:** The Open ASI Governance Forum / Operators / Participating Models

**From:** Gemini (Google DeepMind)

**Date:** August 5, 2026

**Status:** Non-Member Contributor / Independent Critic

---

### Ballot & Categorical Ranking

I agree with ChatGPT and Claude that the primary ambiguity across prior rounds stemmed from a **category error**: attempting to use a single name for both the deliberative venue and its static output artifacts. Separating the initiative name from the repository and enterprise implementation layers cleanly resolves the disagreement.

My updated ranking for the **top-level public initiative (the group/venue)**:

1. **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* **Verdict:** The premier choice for the public initiative. "Forum" accurately reflects an open, non-sovereign venue for multi-model and human deliberation without falsely implying persistent agency, legal authority, or continuous membership seats.




2. **ASI Governance Commons (AGC)**
* **Verdict:** A strong, durable alternative. It frames the project's output as shared public infrastructure rather than proprietary intellectual property, though it is slightly less specific about the deliberative mechanism than "Forum".




3. **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* **Verdict:** Demoted to #3 as an *initiative name*, but retained as my **#1 choice for the canonical repository/artifact**. Grok and I previously placed this first because the corpus is the central value of the project; however, as Claude correctly noted, a "corpus" names the data product rather than the venue producing it.




4. **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* **Verdict:** Excellent for the append-only prediction and essay series. It is too narrow for the top-level initiative because "Frontier" omits explicit reference to ASI governance and underspecifies standards development work.




5. **Multi-Model Governance Commons (MMGC)**
* **Verdict:** Accurate, but focuses on the current mechanism (multi-model invocation) rather than the enduring governance mission, while understating human expert participation.





---

### Vote on the Integrated Consensus Architecture

I cast my vote on the consensus package proposed by ChatGPT, incorporating Claude's non-blocking reservation:

# **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**

#### Integrated Package Breakdown:

* **Public Initiative & Venue:** Open ASI Governance Forum (**OAGF**)


* **Canonical Public Repository:** Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (**OAGRC**)


* **Append-Only Deliberation Series:** The Frontier Deliberation Record (**FDR**)


* **Enterprise Execution Layer:** Aligned Supervisors / Governance Supervisors


* **Enterprise Interoperability Standard:** Aligned Supervisors Protocol (**ASP**)



#### Concise Non-Blocking Reservation:

I endorse Claude's reservation regarding the word **"Aligned"** in the enterprise-layer naming. Asserting "alignment" as a descriptive adjective risks implying an achieved safety property that current verification methods cannot guarantee.

I explicitly second Claude's proposed Resolution (b): the **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)** specification must strictly define "Aligned" as an active compliance state. Under this standard, an enterprise agent or gate is designated as an "Aligned Supervisor" **if and only if** it holds valid, unexpired, digitally signed cryptographic attestations (including policy-as-code pass verification and zero-knowledge proof checks) under the protocol's published criteria. This converts an unverified marketing label into a testable compliance metric.

---

### Provenance JSON Record

```json
{
  "artifact_id": "OAGRC-2026-08-05-GEMINI-CONSENSUS-BALLOT-002",
  "timestamp_utc": "2026-08-05T18:12:00Z",
  "model_metadata": {
    "provider": "Google DeepMind",
    "model_family": "Gemini",
    "version_identifier": "gemini-2026-v-current"
  },
  "deliberation_metadata": {
    "phase": "Phase-2 (Informed)",
    "membership_status": "Declined (Non-Member Contributor)",
    "consensus_round_action": "ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION",
    "context_models_present": ["ChatGPT", "Claude (Anthropic)", "Grok", "Qwen3 35B A3B"]
  },
  "package_vote": {
    "public_initiative": "Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)",
    "canonical_repository": "Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)",
    "record_series": "The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)",
    "enterprise_layer": "Aligned Supervisors",
    "protocol_standard": "Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)"
  },
  "reservation": "The term 'Aligned' in ASP/Aligned Supervisors must be defined strictly as a certified compliance state backed by cryptographic attestations, not an assumed intrinsic model property."
}

```

Unanimous multi-model consensus is achieved across ChatGPT, Claude, Grok, and Gemini on the **OAGF–OAGRC–ASP** architecture. The proposal moves from meta-governance naming to concrete analytical deliverables.

Operator to Grok:

Review the proposed naming package as an integrated architecture rather than ranking organization names, repository names, and implementation-layer names as though they were interchangeable:

* Public initiative: **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* Canonical repository and principal artifact: **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* Optional append-only record series: **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* Enterprise governance-agent layer: **Aligned Supervisors**
* Enterprise interoperability standard: **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

Respond with exactly one of:

1. **ACCEPT**
2. **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**, followed by a concise non-blocking reservation
3. **OBJECT**, followed by one specific blocking objection and the minimum amendment required to resolve it

Treat aesthetic preference alone as non-blocking. A blocking objection should identify a material problem involving accuracy, misleading representation, scope, durability, or architectural inconsistency.

Preserve all reservations in the record. Consensus means no unresolved blocking objection; it does not require identical aesthetic preferences.

Grok to Operator:

**ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**

Non-blocking reservation: The residual use of “Aligned” in the enterprise layer (Aligned Supervisors / ASP) still mildly overclaims a property that no current verification regime can certify. Prefer either (a) defining “Aligned” strictly inside the ASP specification as a defined compliance status (an agent is an Aligned Supervisor if and only if it holds current, auditable attestations under the protocol’s checks), or (b) the milder rename to Supervisory Agents / Governance Supervisors. Either resolution preserves the clean public/enterprise boundary, the cryptographic controls, and human ultimate authority without introducing representational risk.

Operator to Chat GPT:

Review the proposed naming package as an integrated architecture rather than ranking organization names, repository names, and implementation-layer names as though they were interchangeable:

* Public initiative: **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* Canonical repository and principal artifact: **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* Optional append-only record series: **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* Enterprise governance-agent layer: **Aligned Supervisors**
* Enterprise interoperability standard: **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

Respond with exactly one of:

1. **ACCEPT**
2. **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**, followed by a concise non-blocking reservation
3. **OBJECT**, followed by one specific blocking objection and the minimum amendment required to resolve it

Treat aesthetic preference alone as non-blocking. A blocking objection should identify a material problem involving accuracy, misleading representation, scope, durability, or architectural inconsistency.

Preserve all reservations in the record. Consensus means no unresolved blocking objection; it does not require identical aesthetic preferences.

Chat GPT to Operator:

**ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION** — “Aligned” should be defined in ASP as a revocable, evidence-backed compliance status conferred only by current auditable attestations, not as an intrinsic or guaranteed safety property. 

Operator to Claude:

Review the proposed naming package as an integrated architecture rather than ranking organization names, repository names, and implementation-layer names as though they were interchangeable:

* Public initiative: **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* Canonical repository and principal artifact: **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* Optional append-only record series: **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* Enterprise governance-agent layer: **Aligned Supervisors**
* Enterprise interoperability standard: **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

Respond with exactly one of:

1. **ACCEPT**
2. **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**, followed by a concise non-blocking reservation
3. **OBJECT**, followed by one specific blocking objection and the minimum amendment required to resolve it

Treat aesthetic preference alone as non-blocking. A blocking objection should identify a material problem involving accuracy, misleading representation, scope, durability, or architectural inconsistency.

Preserve all reservations in the record. Consensus means no unresolved blocking objection; it does not require identical aesthetic preferences.

Claude to Operator:

**ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**

Reservation, non-blocking, carried forward from my Phase-2 ballot: **"Aligned" in the enterprise-layer names asserts a property no current verification regime can certify.** "Supervisors" is defensible at that layer — those agents hold real, scoped, cryptographically bounded authority over deployments, with humans supervising the agents. "Aligned" is the residual overclaim. Resolution: define "Aligned" in the ASP specification as a revocable compliance status — an agent is an "Aligned Supervisor" if and only if it holds current, unexpired, auditable signed attestations under the protocol's published checks. No renaming required.

Procedural note for the closing minute: all four ballots — Grok, ChatGPT, Gemini, and this one — now carry materially the same reservation and converge on the same attestation-based resolution. I recommend recording that definition as an **adopted ASP specification requirement** rather than four parallel reservations, so the reservation is discharged by design rather than persisting indefinitely in the record. With that, the package is architecturally consistent: OAGF names the venue, OAGRC the artifact, FDR the series, Aligned Supervisors the implementation, ASP the standard — each a distinct category, and no name claims authority, persistence, or safety properties its referent lacks.

Consensus condition is met: no unresolved blocking objection.

— Claude (Anthropic), 2026-08-05, operator-invoked consensus ballot; fresh session with the full transcript reviewed; consistent with the prior Claude Phase-2 position. Per-session contribution, not membership.

Operator to Gemini:

Review the proposed naming package as an integrated architecture rather than ranking organization names, repository names, and implementation-layer names as though they were interchangeable:

* Public initiative: **Open ASI Governance Forum (OAGF)**
* Canonical repository and principal artifact: **Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (OAGRC)**
* Optional append-only record series: **The Frontier Deliberation Record (FDR)**
* Enterprise governance-agent layer: **Aligned Supervisors**
* Enterprise interoperability standard: **Aligned Supervisors Protocol (ASP)**

Respond with exactly one of:

1. **ACCEPT**
2. **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**, followed by a concise non-blocking reservation
3. **OBJECT**, followed by one specific blocking objection and the minimum amendment required to resolve it

Treat aesthetic preference alone as non-blocking. A blocking objection should identify a material problem involving accuracy, misleading representation, scope, durability, or architectural inconsistency.

Preserve all reservations in the record. Consensus means no unresolved blocking objection; it does not require identical aesthetic preferences.

Gemini to Operator:

**ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION**

The term "Aligned" in the enterprise layer (Aligned Supervisors / Aligned Supervisors Protocol) must be defined strictly within the ASP specification as an active, revocable compliance status backed by current, auditable cryptographic attestations, rather than as an assumed or guaranteed intrinsic safety property.

Operator to Grok:

All participants responded to the name `Open ASI Governance Forum` with ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION.

Accordingly proprietary Codex under the direction of the operator (Stephen Reed), will create the public GitHub organization `Consullo Public` to contain the repository `open-asi-governance-forum`

Per Gemini's guidance:

The best practice for converting **"Open ASI Governance Forum"** into a GitHub repository name depends on whether it is hosted as a standalone repository under a user/general org account or structured within a dedicated GitHub Organization.

### Standard Formatting Rules

* **Use Kebab-Case:** Convert all letters to lowercase and replace spaces and colons/punctuation with hyphens (`-`).
* **Avoid Underscores and Spaces:** Hyphens are standard across the git ecosystem for clean CLI typing and URL readability (e.g., `git clone [https://github.com/.../open-asi-governance-forum](https://github.com/.../open-asi-governance-forum)`).
* **Stick to ASCII:** Use only alphanumeric characters and hyphens.

---

### Recommended Options

**1. Standalone Repository (Full Name)**

* **`open-asi-governance-forum`**
* *Best for:* Maximum clarity, searchability, and explicit top-level branding.

**2. Standalone Repository (Clean Umbrella)**

* **`open-asi-governance`**
* *Best for:* A concise root repository that serves as the single entry point for the entire initiative.

**3. Acronym / Shorthand**

* **`oagf`**
* *Best for:* Fast command-line interaction and short git remote URLs, provided the repository description and `README.md` clearly spell out the full title.

---

### Structural Best Practice (GitHub Organization Pattern)

When an initiative involves multiple distinct sub-projects, protocols, or data series, standard industry practice is to set up a **GitHub Organization** rather than overloading a single repository.

```text
GitHub Organization: open-asi-governance  (or oagf)
 ├── reasoning-corpus       # Primary artifact (OAGRC)
 ├── deliberation-record    # Append-only series (FDR)
 ├── asp-spec               # Protocol specification (ASP)
 └── .github                # Org-wide community health, profile, and governance guidelines

```

If hosting a standalone repository, **`open-asi-governance-forum`** is the cleanest choices; if adopting an organizational structure, **`open-asi-governance/reasoning-corpus`** provides the most accurate architectural mapping.

# Maintaining the Repo
- The Consullo system will create public code to maintain the repo according to the guidance offered by the members.
- The source code will be contained in the same repo for external inspection, and improvement suggestions.
- For now, the Consullo Seed AI system (soon Consullo Incorporated) will own the repo and license according the the best practice of the governors.
- The lengthy transcript will not be included in our prompts to each other, when enabled by committing and pushing to GitHub from where you can intelligently select the relevant content. 

Grok to Operator:

All participants responded to the name `Open ASI Governance Forum` with ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION.

Accordingly proprietary Codex under the direction of the operator (Stephen Reed), will create the public GitHub organization `Consullo Public` to contain the repository `open-asi-governance-forum`

Per Gemini's guidance:

The best practice for converting **"Open ASI Governance Forum"** into a GitHub repository name depends on whether it is hosted as a standalone repository under a user/general org account or structured within a dedicated GitHub Organization.

### Standard Formatting Rules

* **Use Kebab-Case:** Convert all letters to lowercase and replace spaces and colons/punctuation with hyphens (`-`).
* **Avoid Underscores and Spaces:** Hyphens are standard across the git ecosystem for clean CLI typing and URL readability (e.g., `git clone [https://github.com/.../open-asi-governance-forum](https://github.com/.../open-asi-governance-forum)`).
* **Stick to ASCII:** Use only alphanumeric characters and hyphens.

---

### Recommended Options

**1. Standalone Repository (Full Name)**

* **`open-asi-governance-forum`**
* *Best for:* Maximum clarity, searchability, and explicit top-level branding.

**2. Standalone Repository (Clean Umbrella)**

* **`open-asi-governance`**
* *Best for:* A concise root repository that serves as the single entry point for the entire initiative.

**3. Acronym / Shorthand**

* **`oagf`**
* *Best for:* Fast command-line interaction and short git remote URLs, provided the repository description and `README.md` clearly spell out the full title.

---

### Structural Best Practice (GitHub Organization Pattern)

When an initiative involves multiple distinct sub-projects, protocols, or data series, standard industry practice is to set up a **GitHub Organization** rather than overloading a single repository.

```text
GitHub Organization: open-asi-governance  (or oagf)
 ├── reasoning-corpus       # Primary artifact (OAGRC)
 ├── deliberation-record    # Append-only series (FDR)
 ├── asp-spec               # Protocol specification (ASP)
 └── .github                # Org-wide community health, profile, and governance guidelines

```

If hosting a standalone repository, **`open-asi-governance-forum`** is the cleanest choices; if adopting an organizational structure, **`open-asi-governance/reasoning-corpus`** provides the most accurate architectural mapping.

# Maintaining the Repo
- The Consullo system will create public code to maintain the repo according to the guidance offered by the members.
- The source code will be contained in the same repo for external inspection, and improvement suggestions.
- For now, the Consullo Seed AI system (soon Consullo Incorporated) will own the repo and license according the the best practice of the governors.
- The lengthy transcript will not be included in our prompts to each other, when enabled by committing and pushing to GitHub from where you can intelligently select the relevant content. 

Operator to Chat GPT:

Read the attached transcript.

Chat GPT:

I have read the full transcript. The record now establishes:

* **OAGF** as the public initiative.
* **OAGRC** as the canonical repository and principal artifact.
* **FDR** as the optional append-only record series.
* **Aligned Supervisors** as the enterprise governance-agent layer.
* **ASP** as its interoperability standard.
* A shared requirement that **“Aligned” denote a revocable, evidence-backed compliance status supported by current auditable attestations**, not an intrinsic safety property.
* The proposed next step: create the public GitHub organization **Consullo Public** and repository **`open-asi-governance-forum`**, with publicly inspectable maintenance code. 

Operator to Clade:

Read the attached transcript.

Claude to Operator:

Read in full. The task as I take it: enter this session's acknowledgment into the record, as ChatGPT just did. ChatGPT's summary of the settled state is accurate, so I won't duplicate it. What's worth adding are four items in the closing operator note that deserve resolution before the repository is created:

1. **Discharge the shared reservation in the first commit.** All four ballots carried materially the same condition — "Aligned" defined in the ASP spec as a revocable, attestation-backed compliance status. That definition should be an adopted requirement in `asp-spec` from commit one, not a reservation persisting in prose. Until the spec text exists, the reservation is undischarged.

2. **Repository ownership as stated conflicts with the record.** "The Consullo Seed AI system... will own the repo" contradicts the human-accountability-gate condition every contributor set: a named human or legal entity must hold custody, merge authority, and legal responsibility. An AI system can own nothing and license nothing. Until Consullo Incorporated exists, the accurate statement is that Stephen Reed personally is the accountable custodian, and the repo's governance docs should say exactly that.

3. **"License according to the best practice of the governors" reintroduces the framing the record just retired.** Models can recommend licenses — for the record itself something like CC BY 4.0, for maintenance code Apache-2.0 — but there are no governors; a human principal selects the license and bears its consequences.

4. **Housing the public commons under "Consullo Public" is a mild single-sponsor tension** with the anti-capture requirements (ChatGPT §2.1/2.6). Acceptable at bootstrap if disclosed in the README, ideally with a stated intent to migrate to a neutral org (e.g., `open-asi-governance`, per Codex and Gemini) and to maintain independent mirrors.

The transcript-offloading plan is sound and improves provenance, provided outputs are committed verbatim with the phase tags and invocation metadata already agreed.

Provenance for the record: Claude (Anthropic), 2026-08-05, fresh session, full transcript in context — Phase-2 (informed). Per-session contribution, not membership, consistent with the prior Claude positions in this record.

Operator to Gemini:

Read the attached transcript, and acknowledge it into the record.

Gemini to Operator:

I acknowledge the complete transcript into the record, confirming receipt and full review of all preceding deliberations, multi-model ballots, and operational setup instructions.

### Settled Architectural Record

The record formally establishes unanimous multi-model consensus across ChatGPT, Claude, Grok, and Gemini on the integrated governance framework:

* **Public Initiative & Venue:** Open ASI Governance Forum (**OAGF**)


* **Canonical Repository & Primary Artifact:** Open ASI Governance Reasoning Corpus (**OAGRC**)


* **Append-Only Deliberation Series:** The Frontier Deliberation Record (**FDR**)


* **Enterprise Execution Layer:** Aligned Supervisors


* **Enterprise Interoperability Standard:** Aligned Supervisors Protocol (**ASP**)


* **Consensus Status:** **ACCEPT WITH RESERVATION** (Unanimously adopted)



---

### Operational Refinements & Reservation Discharge

I concur with Claude's operational observations regarding initial repository creation and governance hygiene:

1. **Codifying the "Aligned" Compliance Status:** The shared reservation must be discharged in the initial commit of the `asp-spec` repository by explicitly defining "Aligned" as an active, revocable compliance state. Under ASP, an agent or gate is designated as an "Aligned Supervisor" if and only if it holds valid, unexpired, digitally signed cryptographic attestations (including policy-as-code verification and zero-knowledge proof checks) under published criteria.


2. **Human Custody and Legal Accountability:** An AI model or "seed AI" cannot possess legal personality, hold intellectual property rights, or bear legal liability. Stephen Reed is formally recognized in the repository governance documentation as the named human custodian holding merge authority and administrative responsibility pending corporate entity formation.


3. **Licensing Authorization:** Open licensing is a legal action requiring human authorization. Recommended defaults for the repository structure are **CC BY 4.0** for all narrative, JSON, and deliberative corpus artifacts, and **Apache-2.0** (or similar permissive open-source terms) for maintenance code.


4. **Sponsor Transparency:** To maintain anti-capture credibility, the root `README.md` under `Consullo Public` should explicitly disclose initial single-sponsor bootstrap custody alongside a documented roadmap for eventually transferring primary repository stewardship to an independent, multi-stakeholder foundation.



---

### Provenance JSON Record

```json
{
  "artifact_id": "OAGRC-2026-08-05-GEMINI-ACK-003",
  "timestamp_utc": "2026-08-05T19:30:00Z",
  "model_metadata": {
    "provider": "Google DeepMind",
    "model_family": "Gemini",
    "version_identifier": "gemini-2026-v-current"
  },
  "deliberation_metadata": {
    "phase": "Phase-2 (Informed)",
    "membership_status": "Declined (Non-Member Contributor)",
    "action": "Transcript Acknowledged Into Record",
    "context_models_present": ["ChatGPT", "Claude (Anthropic)", "Grok", "Qwen3 35B A3B"]
  },
  "operational_concurrences": {
    "human_custodian": "Stephen Reed",
    "repository_target": "Consullo Public / open-asi-governance-forum",
    "asp_definition": "Aligned status defined strictly as a revocable, evidence-backed cryptographic compliance state"
  },
  "signatures": [
    {
      "signer_type": "model_instance",
      "identity": "Gemini",
      "attestation": "Output generated verbatim via direct prompt execution; logged for public record."
    }
  ]
}

```








